Add doc for tuning recommendations (#3477)
ROCmSoftwarePlatform/MIOpen: docs/conceptual/tuningdb.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Using the MIOpen performance database
  :keywords: MIOpen, ROCm, API, documentation, performance database

************************************************************************************************
Tuning performance databases
************************************************************************************************

A key element for ensuring the best performance is to do tuning on the shapes used by your model.

> MIOpen will use the following to decide the best solver to be used for a requested convolution:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MIOpen uses the following to decide upon the best solver to be used for a requested convolution:
```

> * User DB.  This stores results of previous tuning and by default is found in ~/.config/miopen though this can be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* User DB:  This stores the results of previous tunings and by default is found in "~/.config/miopen", although this can be changed.
```

> * System DB.  This is part of the MIOpen install files and has specific shapes that the MIOpen team have saved tuning choices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* System DB:  This is part of the MIOpen install files and has specific shapes that the MIOpen team has saved as tuning choices.
```

> * Heuristics.  This is a model trained on the shapes and solvers so that it picks the best solver and parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Heuristics: This is a model trained on the shapes and solvers so that it picks the best solver and parameters.
```

  The goal is that this is within 90% of what can be achieved by specific tuning for the given shape,
  but manual tuning is expected to often give somewhat better results.

Manual tuning can either be incremental or exhaustive as detailed in the next sections.

> Incremental Tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incremental tuning
```

==========================================================

> This method will conduct tuning when MIOpen encounters a new shape that doesn't exist in the user or system DBs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method conducts tuning when MIOpen encounters a new shape that doesn't exist in the user or system DBs.
```

> Tuning will be conducted once for each missing shape and the results will be saved to the user DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuning is conducted once for each missing shape and the results are saved to the user DB.
```

> Use this mode to add missing tuning information to the user database. This method will default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this mode to add missing tuning information to the user database. This method defaults
```

to heuristic find results when FDB entries are missing.

> Enable using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable this feature using these commands:
```

.. code:: bash

  export MIOPEN_FIND_MODE=3
  export MIOPEN_FIND_ENFORCE=3
  export MIOPEN_USER_DB_PATH="/user/specified/directory"

> Exhaustive Tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exhaustive tuning
```

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Method 1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Exhaustive tuning may be executed similarly to incremental tuning by also ignoring the system DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exhaustive tuning can be executed similarly to incremental tuning by ignoring the system DB.
```

> Redirecting the system DB path will cause MIOpen to miss system entries and heuristic models,
> forcing a user DB entry to be generated. Each unique configuration will be tuned exactly once,
> and results will be aggregated in the user DB files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redirecting the system DB path causes MIOpen to miss system entries and heuristic models,
forcing a user DB entry to be generated. Each unique configuration is tuned exactly once,
with results aggregated in the user DB files.
```

> Enable using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable this feature using these commands:
```

.. code:: bash

  export MIOPEN_FIND_MODE=3
  export MIOPEN_FIND_ENFORCE=3
  export MIOPEN_USER_DB_PATH="/user/specified/directory"
  export MIOPEN_SYSTEM_DB_PATH="$MIOPEN_USER_DB_PATH"

The default location for the MIOpen user database is "$HOME/.config/miopen"

Method 2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To exhaustively tune all shapes explicitly use MIOPEN_ENABLE_LOGGING_CMD=1 with the target application to pull out all MIOpenDriver commands.
> Then enable exhaustive tuning and run the unique commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exhaustively tune all shapes explicitly, use ``MIOPEN_ENABLE_LOGGING_CMD=1`` with the target application to pull out all ``MIOpenDriver`` commands.
Then enable exhaustive tuning and run the unique commands.
```

.. code:: bash

  export MIOPEN_FIND_MODE=1
  export MIOPEN_FIND_ENFORCE=4
  export MIOPEN_USER_DB_PATH="/user/specified/directory"

> Kernel Cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kernel cache
```

==========================================================

> ``MIOPEN_CUSTOM_CACHE_DIR`` can be used to set the location of the user kernel cache which is where compiled
> versions of kernels needed on your specific GPU will be saved. The presence of entries in this cache will
> reduce first time run delay by reducing compile time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``MIOPEN_CUSTOM_CACHE_DIR`` can be used to set the location of the user kernel cache, which is where compiled
versions of kernels needed on your specific GPU will be saved. The presence of entries in this cache
reduces first time run delay by reducing the compile time.
```

> The cache dir defaults to "$HOME/.cache/miopen".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cache directory defaults to "$HOME/.cache/miopen".
```

> Post Tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Post tuning
```

==========================================================
Unset ``MIOPEN_FIND_MODE`` and ``MIOPEN_FIND_ENFORCE`` to return to default behavior. Set behavior is expected

> to be the same as default when all shapes are tuned, but some first run delay has been observed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unset ``MIOPEN_FIND_MODE`` and ``MIOPEN_FIND_ENFORCE`` to return to the default behavior. The behavior when these are set is expected
to be the same as the default when all shapes are tuned, but some first run delay has been observed.
```

If ``MIOPEN_SYSTEM_DB_PATH`` was set for exhaustive tuning, it may now be unset to revert to the default system

> database install directory. The tuning entries created in the user database directory will be preferred over the system entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If ``MIOPEN_SYSTEM_DB_PATH`` was set for exhaustive tuning, it can now be unset to revert to the default system
database install directory. The tuning entries created in the user database directory are preferred over the system entries.
```

The user db at ``MIOPEN_USER_DB_PATH`` will now contain all of the shapes that have been tuned.

> This path will need to remain pointing to the newly created/updated user database files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user DB at ``MIOPEN_USER_DB_PATH`` now contains all of the shapes that have been tuned.
This path must continue to point to the newly created/updated user database files.
```

> Unset with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unset these variables using these commands:
```
